I had one around here.
Hold this one.
Go get one, yeah.
Okay, good.
Well, I'm really sorry I couldn't get in the other day.
Thank you very much for your understanding.
He got me out early.
He got me back earlier.
Oh, that's good.
It must be quite a feeling to have this book here.
You know, this is 30 years of work.
I just can't imagine how that feels for a writer to hold this thing.
I mean, as an object, as much as what it represents, maybe we could just start with that.
Well, about the book itself, you know, when I started out 30 years ago, I would look at Hemingway's 49 stories and play the fifth column and say, I don't know how anybody could
write so much, but it must be a great feeling to get them all in one book.
Because I wrote, you know, maybe ten times as many stories as Hemingway.
So this is a selected collection, but it's the same feeling that I projected for him.
Right, it's a retrospective collection too, of course.
It's a retrospective collection as well.
I understand it's a selected collection.
Yeah, it is.
It's a retrospective.
You know, it contains some of my best stories, but not, you know, I had to select them out of, I had to select them selectively, you know, for style and for theme.
But there are other stories that I feel are just as good, but I feel a little disappointed that I could put them in.
Well, there'll be another volume, maybe.
That's what I'm hoping, and that's what I've asked my agent to submit.
But I guess it would depend, since this is such an expensive collection.
for the publisher to produce.
And I don't know how many, you know, I don't know what the rewards will be.
Well, you couldn't be, I'm so thrilled.
I just, I'm just signing my first book contract with Holt.
With Alan, as a matter of fact.
And I don't know how you got to Alan Peacock, but he's wonderful.
You've basically done most of your books with smaller publishers, right?
So this is kind of a... Well, this is the first one in 15 years with a major publisher.
The last one was in 1979 with Quite Contrary and 78 with Too Late with Paul Monroe.
How do you, I mean, do you feel now that you'll be reaching, I mean, I've read conflicting things on this.
On the one hand, of course, you want to reach the larger audience.
But on the other hand, you know, you're writing, I guess, from what I can gather from the various things I read, that you are writing, you know, first for yourself.
That's right.
And everything else takes care of itself.
Maybe you could address yourself to that.
Is there a conflict there?
No, no, because, you know, if this had happened 20 years ago, of course, I couldn't have had a retrospective like this.
then it might have turned my head.
But I don't think anything's going to turn my head by now.
In fact, people accuse me of being a little too blasé about it.
Because by this time, I'm expecting the worst.
I'm expecting no reviews, no attention, and sort of a disgruntlement from the publisher that nothing came of this very expensive project of theirs.
But it certainly won't turn my head if I get a few more readers.
That's fine.
But I will continue to write for myself since it's paid off emotionally and spiritually and aesthetically in the past.
You know, a success could only, if you let it sway you, could only kill your work.
Yeah.
Coincidental to this book, I just wrote a piece.
I did an interview with Robert Giroux on the Elizabeth Bishop Letters.
Yeah.
And she's from around here.
That isn't what sparked my interest.
I'm just fascinated by the subject.
But here's a woman whose corpus is probably 80 poems.
Mm-hmm.
A tremendous volume of letters, of course, but they were not intended for publication.
You, on the other hand, seem to have no problem writing these things.
I mean, tell me a little bit about this creative process of yours, say, as opposed to the person like Elizabeth Bishop who will take 16 years to write one poem, you know?
As an example, it took me five and a half years to write Frog, which I wrote every single day except the days that we were traveling to and from Maine.
And the day after I finished it, I started the short story.
I thought I would give myself a couple of days.
But there were obviously stories that had nothing to do with this immense novel, Frog, that were sort of brewing in my consciousness or subconsciousness.
And I just said, well, every day, if I finish something, the next day I always start something, at least I try to, just to see what's in there.
And if nothing is in there, I'll find out in an hour or two when, you know, when not so much that the page is blank, but that the page is filled with clock trap.
For me, you know, I'm happiest when I'm writing, and the truth is, so is my family.
Because if I'm not writing, I get a little testy.
And my joke is that my wife, you know, that I've been wanting to quit for the last 15 years, but my family has questioned me to continue writing simply, you know, for the betterment and peace and tranquility of the household.
What would you do if you weren't writing?
Well, you know, I do have this teaching job.
That's a gig, though.
That's a convenient gig, I bet, though, just between us.
Yeah, it's a lot of work, though, because I'm a very conscientious teacher, and sometimes I have three classes a semester plus.
That's a lot.
But I get it over with.
I mean, to me, teaching is sort of, you know, it gives me the money to write.
But what I would do is, I don't know, I'd read more.
I don't have enough time to read.
I've read someplace where you're bored by the work of your contemporaries.
Yeah, well, most of it is the same old thing.
It's more cerebral than emotional.
It's work which rarely takes any chances with style, prose.
And I don't see anybody going forward.
Is it the fault also of the publishing industry and the editors to think the people, what they want?
I mean... But I read little presses too.
Say again, I'm sorry?
I read the work that comes out of little presses that the big ones won't publish and it doesn't seem much better than the big ones.
In fact, sometimes the big ones seem to take greater chances.
The big ones can lose a little money, and the little ones can't, it seems.
I am sort of bored by my contemporaries.
It's true that I haven't read all of them.
But I would just see what I would do.
If I wasn't writing fiction, I might be writing more plays, one-act plays, or drawings.
I've always sort of had been artistic since I was a boy, so I was always doing something, either theater or poetry or painting or drawing or trying out something.
It was only writing, you know, when I was about 22.
You know, that I found what I really wanted.
I thought perhaps that you might have done the jacket illustration for the book, but I see that somebody else did that.
What I did, see, they wanted a photograph.
I thought that was too self-centered.
I don't like photographs of authors on the cover.
I certainly didn't want my person on the cover.
What I did was send them three self-portraits, drawings that I quickly did off of a window reflection.
They liked the idea, but I doubt they liked the portraits.
But they were as grotesque-looking as the cover that
they have now, but not as artistic.
I like the cover, by the way.
Yeah, I do too.
In fact, I love the production of the book.
There's never been a book that I've been more proud of.
It's wonderful.
Not only because of its bulk, but because of its design, and of course because of what it means to me as a writer.
I can't tell you when this book came in and I showed it to my wife the day before.
Holter just made an offer to write my book, you know.
And I didn't even know this was an Alan Peacock book.
And later I learned, I said, Connie, look at this.
Isn't this beautiful?
I thought you were in the right firm.
Say again?
I knew I was because they're taking a chance with me.
My book is huge.
And one of the arguments against it is that
that it won't sell to the chains.
Life and death in publishing today comes down to whether or not
They're confident that you can sell to the chains.
That stinks, if I may say so.
Worthiness and unworthiness are irrelevant, it seems.
You can understand what it's like with short stories, too.
It's like poetry.
Yeah, short stories.
I'm amazed.
But look at the collections, though.
I mean, you've got your book, and I'm doing it with Grace Paley in a couple weeks.
Yeah, but I mean, I think that there almost has to be the stature of a Steve Dixon and a Grace Paley to get a big book like this.
But then again, you know, how many other?
Tell me a little bit about the short story.
You do write in so many different forms.
And you finished Frog, and the next day you started on a story.
Is that right?
Well, the next day I started on a one-act play.
A one-act play.
And then I did four of those.
And they're actually story plays.
where I published three of them as short stories in magazines.
It's really just one narrator, so I could pull that off.
Do you do these with the idea that they will be produced, that they will be done on the stage?
Well, I sent them out, but I've had no luck so far.
Yeah, I would like them to be produced, but it's a whole other market that I'm aggressive about selling my short stories to magazines, but I'm not familiar with the...
with a theater market at all.
So I just... But I'm just wondering about the creative process here when you're writing.
Are you in fact thinking, are you visualizing these things?
Do you see them on the stage?
No, no, it's about with a line, which I do with everything that I start out with.
I have almost no idea what I'm going to write when I sit down.
All I know is that I'm going to sit myself at this manual typewriter on a small desk and start writing.
And, you know, sometimes a line comes...
It comes to me before, but nothing more than a line and usually never an idea, meaning a concept of what I want from that story.
So I just sit down and type that line.
Usually it's a piece of dialogue or a very, very simple line to get myself into the story.
And then something answers it, and then I'm on my way, and something answers it back.
And I have a dialogue either between two people or an interior dialogue.
And that's how I start my work.
And I just continue to work on the first draft.
Usually, you know, it takes me an hour, an hour and a half.
And even if it's a 20, 25-page story, I'm a very fast typist.
And then it's done.
And then the first draft is done.
And then I say, well, do I have something or not?
And if I don't have something, I say, discard it.
but I like the idea, so I'll rewrite it, and I'll write it in a different way.
Do you throw any?
You say discard.
Do you throw any of this stuff away?
Oh, yeah, I throw everything away that I don't use because my feeling is that it will come back in some other form, a better form, a more spontaneous form.
While if I sort of pick through my runes, I'm just going to get, you know, I'll pick through them, I'll get words and ideas, but I won't get the feeling that produced it.
And I feel that sort of urgency when I'm writing has to be
in the work that I'm writing.
There has to be a certain immediacy.
So you're not leaving any entrails to be poured over by the graduate students 50 years from now or 100 years from now?
No, except some rejected short stories from 30 years ago, 20, 30 years ago, which I have
in my drawers, and I don't know why.
Yeah, but those are finished works.
I'm talking about the stuff, you know.
No first dress, no.
Too bad.
You know, in a way, it gives me a better feeling to throw away work.
Because, as I said, it will come back.
It will come back in another form, much, much better.
Don't you think the student, the scholar, would like to see these?
My book, incidentally, is about the preservation of documents and collecting and archival things.
I just believe everything should be saved, but that's me talking.
The reason I don't do it also is because if I feel that the scholar is going to look at my old work, then I'm going to be too self-conscious about it.
You see, I admire you for this.
I mean, Kafka says destroy the stories.
Well, if he really wanted them destroyed, he should have destroyed them himself, right?
That's right.
So you're doing this.
I'm doing the job, and I'm not sort of putting any moral mind on anybody after I pass on.
The same thing happened with some of these Elizabeth Bishop letters she writes at the very end.
Now, destroy these letters.
And they didn't.
So then the person would say to Giroux, well, she told me to destroy them.
She said, well, she's been dead now for all these years, and you didn't.
So now you owe it to posterity.
I'm sorry, I interrupted you.
Go ahead.
No, no, no.
But see, I don't agree with Giroux.
I tell other people.
Some people have asked, what should I do with your letters?
They said, get rid of them.
They're worthless.
They're just between you and me.
And I'm not interested in what scholars feel about my work or the future of my work.
I'm just interested in what I'm doing at the moment.
And after a story is done, you know, I could look back and say, gee, you know, I admire that, I wonder how I did it, but I certainly don't want to repeat it, because then I'll be repeating myself.
You're not, now let's rewind the tape a tad here.
You're really not interested about the future of your work?
No.
Want to examine that a bit?
You're not?
I'm not, you know, they're published, and that's it for me.
Now I'm on to the next thing.
Because if I, all I'm interested in is having a good time when I'm writing, is to explore...
myself through my writing is to have some fun to do something original stylistically with each work and then it's done and usually I forget my work if I finish it because I've written so much and then I'm on to the next one this keeps every single new work fresh so all I'm interested in is the next work
is in completing the work that I'm doing and getting on to the next work.
So I have to think then that putting together this collection was not an easy task then?
Because you're going back over completed work.
I put it together in about an hour.
Come on!
I looked at all my work.
I've had some favorites.
In the past, people have asked me, what are your favorite stories?
I'll say, my favorite stories are the ones where
I made a breakthrough.
For instance, you know, Mac and Love, Streets, Milk is Very Good for You.
Stories where if I repeated them, I'd be repeating myself and I wouldn't be an original writer.
And so there are about 20 or 30 stories in there that stand out.
For instance, Grace Clause.
I mean, if I did a story like that in that particular language with those very, very short sentences and that kind of emotional flow that goes...
it would be a Dixon story.
It would be a repeat, as if I have nothing else to say and no other way to say it in.
So there are stories that have stood out in the past.
And then I very quickly looked through and said, well, okay, you have two writer stories or one writer story in here, no more writer stories.
You have several love stories, no more of that.
But what made it easy was that I wanted something from every book.
And so I just sort of chose the ones that over the years, you know, I felt were my favorites from every book, but that would not sort of conflict stylistically or structurally or...
or story-wise with the others.
No, it really did.
It only took me an hour.
You remember back in, what was it, 78, there were the collected stories of John Cheever.
And, of course, Cheever exercised similar control and selection over the book.
Now, in the last couple of years, they were putting together the uncollected Cheever, which caused a tremendous... How would you feel about that, somebody sifting through the stuff and making their selection?
I wouldn't mind.
This would be stuff that has never... Not while I'm alive, though.
I mean, it's sort of a new point because I'd be dead when it happened.
So, you know, they could do what they want with my published prose that hasn't been in book form.
But I've already put together a collection of about 50, 60 stories for if Peacock wants it.
So this will, you know, take care of the immediate...
You know, it's true that if somebody in the future, you know, put together the uncollected stories, and there are, you know, hundreds in little magazines, it would be interesting, you know, what somebody else thought about the work and whether it would hold up.
But I think once you're dead, you're sort of safe.
Not because you're dead and you won't have to hear the criticism, but, you know, there's the argument that, well, this is not the collection that he would have put together.
I love that quote.
I've never heard it before.
Once you're dead, you're safe.
I like it a lot.
You talk again about... You must have liked jazz, right?
No, I don't.
You don't?
I don't.
I'm strictly... What do you call it?
Serious classical music.
Really?
That goes back to Gregorian chants.
Well, I'm a good Greek, and I know Gregorian jazz.
And right up to what I think is the best 20th century music.
Because there is almost a... A rhythm.
Yeah, but not just that.
The way you write is almost improvisational in some respects.
I try to make it that way.
What you've described as sitting down and, you know, listening for the tune and then just doing a riff or something and following it where it goes.
Maybe am I missing... No, no, you're absolutely on the mark.
I mean, that's the... You know, rhythm is one...
thing that I try for, too, in a story, to sort of carry a story along just by its rhythm, and very often by the musicality of the prose, you know, sort of subtle rhyming that goes on in many of the stories, you know, in the language.
But jazz, it's never, to me, you know, I hate to...
you know, disparage or, you know, the great body of jazz lovers in this country, but I've never been interested in it.
I mean, I used to be, when I was 12, 13 years old, when I heard Dizzy Gillespie, but once Dizzy Gillespie played a song on a trumpet, and it was based on a theme from Rachmaninoff's Second Symphony.
And I was, I don't know, 12.
It was, you know, an LP.
Not an LP, but a 78.
And I looked on it, I looked at the, you know, that little disc in the middle, you know, which says where, you know...
Right.
And it said, based on, you know, a theme from Rachmaninoff's Second Symphony, it was Full Moon and Empty Hearts.
I think it's Rachmaninoff's Second Symphony.
And so I got Rachmaninoff's Second Symphony.
And since then, I've been a classical music nut.
So why listen to the derivation when you're going to go to the... He did a great job, but I wanted to hear the whole thing.
Right.
But in terms of your writing, I guess what I'm saying is you just, you are an improvisational writer.
I mean, is that a stretch on my part?
You're absolutely right, because I don't plan my stories.
I keep no notes.
I mean, if there's a note, it's just a single line that I'm carrying around to put on the typewriter if I have one.
And then I say, well, try that line.
You know, it's been dangling around or going around your head, and it seems like it would be a good line.
You know, my instincts by now sort of know what might be a good line for the opening of a short story and which might lead to one.
And so those are my notes.
How about a big book like Frog?
Frog was all in my head.
Come on.
I swear to you, I started it in Prague.
You know, on, you know, by hand.
I mean, I went, I had an experience where this guy tried to show me through Kafka's grave, and it was the wrong grave site, you know, and it was a Kafkaesque experience.
And so I wrote it by hand, and I wrote it through, you know, for the next month by hand, and I completed it by hand.
I typed it when I got back, and then I thought, well, this guy's a good character.
What about an interconnected collection of short stories based on him?
So I wrote an interconnected, and then sort of halfway through that, I had this whole design in my head about what I would do.
I would do one on his mother, one on his sister, one on his brother, and that was it.
And so I just carried it around in my head.
I had the ending, you know, about an hour, about a year before it was finished.
The whole thing just planned out in my head.
So really you were just putting it down on paper there for a while.
Excuse me?
I mean, you were putting it, it was up there, so to speak.
I mean, you were keeping up with what was in your head, I guess.
Well, you know, I told myself to keep the design simple in my head so I could remember it.
But it was all in my head.
Nothing went down.
Do you work when you're working?
I mean, are you one of these dawn to dusk guys?
Obviously, you were up for a run this morning, so you do take time for other things.
But tell me a little bit about your work.
The way I work is to get all the sort of nitty-gritty work, the essential work, meaning my schoolwork and my housework, out of the way so I could write.
Because if I don't, then I feel that, well, I'll have to interrupt it to do this or that, or I won't
be prepared for class tomorrow.
So that takes a number of hours.
Usually I do it in the evening so I can start in the morning.
You know, first I have to get my kids out to school every day.
My wife is unable to.
And so, you know, that means getting up at 6 and getting the girl up at 6 and teaching and so on.
And then I have about three hours of writing every day.
And that's what I do.
And you do all the primary work on a manual typewriter?
Yes.
So none of this number two pencil and yellow legal pad type stuff?
No, it's a non-electronic manual.
I have three of them because, you know, when one breaks down, I send it to New York to get fixed.
You mean there are people that still fix them?
Yeah, yeah, in New York.
Nobody in Baltimore.
Yeah.
Let me go back, though, to, you know, you asked...
I know I cut myself short about the writing process, how to write a short story.
But, you know, after I finish this first draft in about an hour, an hour and a half, it's sort of, you know, it's a great release of, you know, creativity.
And, you know, I feel, you know, wonderful that I have, let's say, if it's a work that I'm delighted with, that I have something to work on for the next month.
Because that's usually how long it takes, three weeks to a month for an average short story to write.
And what I do is I just rewrite it.
that story page by page.
In other words, I take the first draft of the original, the first page of the original draft, and I just rewrite it, and rewrite it about 30, 40 times on a typewriter.
Wow.
So it's finished.
See, but always thinking that I must maintain, you know, I must sort of refine the work, but I also must maintain or retain the immediacy, you know, of the work, and also sort of the urgency that went into writing it.
And then I go on to page two, and page three, and page four, and then I'm finished.
And then I finish it, I get it photocopied.
I go to work, I photocopy it, and then the next day I start another story.
Now, with all these 30 and 40 earlier drafts, I think you said you'd discard them?
Yeah.
So there are no variant drafts that exist.
Not recently.
I used to discard them.
I used to, in other words, turn over the page, and that would be my second, you know, that's where I would rewrite the stories on, you see.
I see.
But only in the last, I would say, three, four years, the Johns Hopkins Library has told me not to do this.
Good for them.
They have a collection of my work.
So, you know, they don't buy it.
I give it to them.
And so only with, I think, the last, you know, since Frog and so on, I've kept the, you know, certain pages of the work in progress and getting them, you know, wrapped in strength.
And God knows what they do with it.
So that's what I do with my stories now.
Well, that's good.
I'm glad to hear that.
Can you imagine what library would be able to contain, you know,
All these drafts.
You know, HRC out of Texas.
When you read my book, if you read my book.
I'm interested.
My book is about bibliomania, madness, human nature, the passion for books, whatever.
When you start, you finish the novel one day, you start a one-act play the next, or a short story, and you just...
sit down to the typewriter and you see what happens.
I mean, there's no character talking to you.
There's no voice.
No.
Nothing.
And it can start with any one of these things.
It can start with a character.
It can start with a voice.
It can start with an incident.
A voice.
Because the voice is the thing that carries the story through.
So you always do have a voice.
Yes.
But I don't know it until I sit down.
See, I don't know what the voice or the style is going to be when I sit down to write.
It just comes with the writing.
The voice comes and the style...
It seems to come with it.
At what point does that voice have an identity for you?
Right from the beginning.
Really?
Yeah, right from the first line.
And you can hear it?
You can actually hear a texture to it?
That's right.
It's sort of a rhythm that the line is written in, and somehow some voice is there in my mind.
being transferred to the page.
I mean, the numbers would suggest that you're most comfortable with the short story, but is that a fair statement?
Well, not lately.
Lately, I've sort of, you know, after Frog, and I did write about two collections worth of short stories, and then I wrote a collection and a half, and then I wrote, you know, four plays and about 20 stories.
And then I started a novel.
And it was maybe the second novel of my life that I started as a novel.
I just started.
I said, yeah, this might, you know, be a good novel.
And I finished that.
It took me two years.
It's interstate.
And I'll just plan to publish it next year.
Oh, that's great.
And I finished that December 30th and started the story December 31st.
No, I don't know.
Is there any poetry in your corpus?
There used to be.
I started off as a poet, meaning I thought of myself as a poet.
But it came too easily, and it wasn't very good, I didn't think.
And when I got my job at Hopkins, I really must have had several hundred poems and versions of them.
which I decided that I had to make a break.
You know, I was either a fiction writer or... I mean, I just felt that this was sort of baggage or garbage almost.
And I put them all in a paper bag.
You're going to hate me.
Not a paper bag, a garbage bag.
One of those black bags.
And I put it down in front.
And I didn't wait for the sanitation department to carry it off to oblivion.
That's what I did.
I like to turn off a light.
I guess.
That's a good line.
I'm seeing these in terms of quotes for my own piece.
Somehow, if it comes too easily, and if I don't apply myself rigorously over and over and over again, I don't feel it's hard.
It's almost like a Puritan ethic.
You have to feel a little pain, I guess.
And, you know, I have to labor over it rather than pain.
It's, you know, somehow... And then when I spoke to poets, I just wasn't getting the same thing that they were getting from poetry.
And I don't regret having discarded these things.
It made traveling lighter, you know, as I said.
And I, you know, cut myself off from poetry.
You know, if...
If I'm a poet, then it will come after I finish fiction writing.
But I did with Melville.
Now, you write for yourself first.
Only.
so so there are no vital signs out there for you i know that i as a writer and i'm now in seven newspapers or so uh i love to hear from the people out there and you know i mean if it's the toledo blade takes me there's 250 000 papers i just started with them you know to hear from one of the one of these readers is a kick that people are actually reading what you're doing and responding to it what for you are the vital signs yeah i don't get many responses
You know, I could probably count them on my two hands after all these stories, and some in major magazines.
But you don't need any vital signs, is I guess what I'm driving at.
No, I don't.
And, you know, one could listen to somebody, you know, first of all, I hate praise.
I hate anybody saying good things about it.
I feel embarrassed.
And I don't particularly care if somebody has told me that they didn't like the story either.
I don't like criticism.
And I don't even let my wife see my work.
She might see a page every 200 pages because I'm sort of unclear about it.
Unclear as to whether I am doing the right thing with this line.
So I'll give the page two versions of it and say, you know, which one do you like better?
Because one has a line that's different than the other.
I just, I don't, you know, you could believe in all the good things they say about you, you could believe all the best.
Yeah, I wasn't suggesting praise per se, but I was asking what response, whether or not you get, and I do think there's a difference, you know, because...
Yes, you say you're writing for yourself only, but of course writing is an exercise of communication.
You're writing for yourself, sure, but you are expecting others to respond to it, I think.
I expect that I would have a... If I'm writing for anybody, it's for myself, but also for a fairly intelligent audience who will be able to keep up with my work.
I always think of writing stories, meaning...
You know, it's not just tricks that I'm doing, you know, sort of cerebral tricks that only a few selected academics could understand.
I'm certainly not writing for that reason.
I'm writing, you know, real stories, really, you know, I'm trying to convey deep emotions.
And, you know, I don't see why anybody couldn't, you know, pick them up with a certain reading background.
But I couldn't fathom what my real audience is.
I can't tell you how many writers, and I mean good writers, or certainly writers who are recognized as serious writers, tell you that fundamentally they see themselves as storytellers.
Do you subscribe to that?
I'm a storyteller and a stylist.
I think that style is as important as a story.
I just don't want to tell a story.
I want to tell it in a particular way.
And that particular way always seems to meet my storytelling writing, my rewriting.
I mean, when I'm writing a story, I always seem to come up with a style.
And then I recognize it while I'm writing it, and then, of course, I pursue it.
Then I exploit it and make the most use of it.
But I'm a stylist as much as a storyteller.
I really feel that.
You know what I mean.
I know precisely what you mean.
Simple storytelling isn't enough.
It's just a story that's told usually in a fairly dead or mellow or...
or, you know, ordinary language.
But when we talk about writing for the sake of entertainment, you're talking about entertaining yourself first.
If you're engaged, then the expectation is that others might be as well.
That's right.
And it's become more difficult for me to engage myself because I've gone through so many styles.
But that's the challenge, too, and that's what makes writing for me continually exciting, is to go beyond what I've done.
So now I'm writing stories.
One was, in fact, just taken yesterday by Hoppers.
I mean, a story that is maybe the most powerful story that I've ever written.
And, you know, but it was very, very difficult to write, and it's becoming more difficult to write all the time because I...
you know, I can't, as I say, reproduce.
I don't want to reproduce what I've done.
I want to go beyond it.
And also, while the style is so complicated, I'm also trying to simplify it so that people will grasp the style.
With such a large body of work, on the one hand, and
your admission, I guess, that you really don't, once it's done, you don't go back to it.
You don't read it again, right?
Do you ever find yourself repeating yourself at all?
I know you try not to, mindfully.
Yes.
That's what I meant when I write a first draft of a story, and I say, no, you've done that story, or you've done it in that style.
So you remember everything you've done.
Yeah, it's all there.
I mean...
You know, there's certainly, you know, after so many stories, there must be, you know, some repeats that I wasn't aware of.
You know, even certain scenes that are repeated.
I know that there's a story in Frog, you know, that I did in my first collection.
It's called Boz, that story, and it's the same story almost, but retold.
Mm-hmm.
in a different style.
But I could write two, three, four drafts of stories and say, no, this is a day of repeats.
And so tomorrow, you'll have a better day.
I've never had a block, you see.
I've never had a block.
I've never worried about it.
I mean, after writing so many years, I know that something will always come.
Now, if it doesn't come, then that might be a healthy sign that something that I'm absolutely unaware of is trying to come.
But I've never had a block.
It's always sort of just I've let my imagination ruin my writing.
It just sort of always seems to come.
And I've also been honest about what is crap.
And I've never let a line exist in my prose.
Now, other people might think, oh, that's bullshit.
But I've never let a line that I wasn't absolutely satisfied.
And I felt that I did.
I mean, that it's perfect.
I mean, you say you do 30, 40 drafts, whatever.
But when do you know that it's done?
How do you know?
Ten drafts before.
In other words, this is of a page.
It's page by page once I've done the first.
You won't go to page three until you finish page two.
Is that right?
That's right.
And usually it's done ten draft pages before the last one.
But since I work on a manual, sometimes I might have a smudge on it, or sometimes it's in
You know, the A and D is AMD.
You know, I've made a typo, and so I try to use the correct tape, you know, first erase it, and then I've screwed up, and then it's a mark.
I said, no, something is telling me that you have to go over this page once more until it's visually perfect, and that's when I stop it.
It's certainly aesthetically perfect, and also the page itself is visually perfect.
Now, later on, that page is going to be messed up, you know, when a magazine sends the rewrites and so on, you know, the galleys.
But for that moment, it has to sort of just look beautiful to me.
So there is a physical.
I mean, you have to feel the goods.
You couldn't do this on a word processor.
No.
Oh, the word processor is... First of all, I don't understand the damn machines.
I can't even work on an electronic machine.
Yes, you can.
I can.
I've tried.
You know why I can't?
Because I need the keyboard action of a manual.
I really have to bang away.
It's an emotional experience.
It's tactile as much as anything, isn't it?
That's right.
You know, it's a real visceral experience or a tactile, visceral experience that I have with my typewriter.
That's why I keep, you know, breaking them because I really sort of go through them.
I take very good care of them.
I get them all clean once every six months, but I still break them because it's like a price fight, you know, sometimes.
Where do you buy a manual typewriter when these go?
I mean, can you buy them?
Well, I have three that I bought from a guy on 42nd, East 42nd Street.
What the hell is his name?
Doesn't matter.
Yeah, but he sold me, you know, Hermes.
Hermes, so they're not table, they're standards.
And he doesn't have any more.
I've been trying to, I would like to buy two more, you know, just for the future.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
He repairs them.
He's wonderful.
Send them in a box in UPS and he sends them.
Bob Parker, I love a V Parker up here.
I've had to read him a number of times and he used to say, I'll never get rid of that Underwood, you know.
And once it's through that roll, the last time I went over there, he's got the big computer over there.
And I said, well, what happened here?
And he says, I've broken there.
Couldn't find anybody to fix it.
Tell him to give me a buzz, and I'll tell him exactly who it is.
I think he's bullshitting me.
To me, that's my problem with electronic.
It's like most writing today.
It's just too light.
You have to feel the goods.
You have to handle the goods.
That's right.
And with a word processor, well, you know, I just can't stand looking at the monitor.
It's too complicated a machine, and it would sort of handicap me as a writer.
I know that when I write, I do write on word processors.
I love it, and I swear by it, but I have to have hard copy, too.
There comes a point during the day I have to sit down with the paper and a pencil, and I have to slash over it, because it does read differently.
on paper than it does on a screen.
And that's a fact.
That's a proven fact.
Yeah, I love, you know, when you write on a manual, you have that fresh ink.
That's right.
My forearms are constantly covered with my own words.
You know, because I lean on the paper and then it comes off on my forearm.
I mean, I love the whole experience of sort of going to bed with my...
Now, of course, your roots are in the newspaper business, right?
Those are my early roots, right.
And not so much newspaper, but journalism, reporting.
We were a news service in Washington.
First, I started with NBC News in New York when I was in college as a copy boy.
I did that for two years.
Oh, whatever that show was, that weekend show, Monitor.
That was a great show.
Yeah, and then I went to Washington.
I remember that show.
Excuse me?
I said I date myself by remembering that show.
And then I went to Washington for two years for a news service and, you know, covered Congress.
And, you know, we handled, you know, radio, television, and a practice station in Worcester.
TAG.
It was a 50,000-watt station.
We handled one in Boston and one in Worcester.
Of course, I was always interviewing Kennedy and anybody who was from Massachusetts.
And then I went to New York for Fawcett Publications as a magazine editor, then to CBS as a radio producer.
So you worked around then.
Yeah.
And then when I sold my first story at CBS, I said, well, now you have to give up
news work, because, you know, take the words of Gertrude Stein, take Gertrude Stein's words to Hemingway, you know, you begin sounding too much like a reporter and less like a fiction writer.
And so I gave it up, and maybe I gave it up too early, because, you know, it was a struggle for 20 years.
But boy, a writer's search sure does learn, I mean, you certainly do learn to live with rejection, though, don't you?
Yeah.
And it does build character as well, doesn't it?
Yeah, I mean, I got my first novel published at 40, but I wrote my first novel when I was 23.
That wasn't a novel that was published at, in fact, my first book was published at 40, and my first novel at 41.
You know, but the old books, you know, they are certainly in a closet.
In fact, they're in a closet at Hopkins, you know, the early dress of my, not the early dress, but the finished works of my first four novels, which, you know, I don't want to publish it.
Yeah, you learn from rejection, but I didn't plan it that way.
It was sort of a gift, though, you know, an undesired or wanted gift.
I certainly wanted to be published early, and I tried, and I came very close when I was in my 20s and my 30s.
But what happened, you know, but it just turned out that, you know, that they were always at the last minute rejected or, you know, thoroughly rejected.
But it did build character, and it sort of gave me an audience of one, myself.
If I had been published early...
I might have been influenced early by editors, agents, booksellers, and the rest of them, and critics.
So I would have been more vulnerable.
Look at Peter Benchley, not to suggest that he's a writer in any way, but he just comes to mind.
I mean, the first book is Jaws.
I mean, that's it.
He's doing versions of Jaws for the rest of his life, you know, because of the...
The commercial success and the expectations.
I'm not so sure he has it in him to be a writer of any kind of depth.
There are some writers who will tell you they will not put down a word except for money.
And I think money has always killed good writers.
And that's one thing that I knew from this early on.
But, of course, you could be influenced even though you have this sort of feeling of what something could do.
But, you know, I was poor for 20 years.
You know, I just took jobs to support my writing.
And that ended up being, you know, sort of maybe even saving me as a writer.
But I'd never write for money.
You know, an agent says, well, how much do you want?
You know, now I have an agent.
I didn't have an agent for 20 years.
You know, what do you want for this book?
I said, anything.
You know, I mean, money is not what I'm interested in.
I'm interested in, you know, in being published.
I said the same thing.
Yeah.
You regret it?
Well, they apologized for how little money they were offering me.
And I said, you're publishing my book, right?
I said, you like my book, right?
I said, you like my book?
He said, I love your book.
I said, that's all I care about.
I said, you like it?
He says, I love it.
I said, then we got a deal.
I said, no problem, you know?
Then you're a writer.
Yeah.
You know, a hack or a man of commerce.
You know, actually, I don't need an advance.
I mean, you know, if a book makes royalties.
You ask Alan what I said to him last week.
I said, listen, the money you're giving me, I said, this is known as an advance, right?
I said, maybe I'm 51, you know, maybe I'm an old schooler.
I said, but if the book does better, I make more, right?
He says, right.
I said, well, then what's wrong with that?
I said, that sounds like a good American deal to me, you know?
So anyway, listen, I've taken up a lot of your Saturday morning time here.
And if I want to send you something, what do I send it to the English department at Johns Hopkins?
No, no, no, no.
First of all, it's the writing seminars.
Okay.
But send it to me at home.
And we do have a fax at work in case you want a fax.
Okay.
I'll give you that number.
It's 410-516-6828.
Okay.
But my address here is 1315...
Boys, B-O-Y-C-E-F-U.
Okay, good.
Baltimore, 2-1-2-0-4.
Good.
Now, if I send you also a copy of this book with an envelope to send it back, would you inscribe it for me?
Oh, yeah, you bet.
Great.
Okay, we got a deal then.
Okay.
And if I have any other questions, I'll give you a ring.
It's very nice.
I've enjoyed this.
When does your book come out?
It'll be early next year.
Uh-huh.
God bless it.
I'm very much interested in your subject matter, you know, because it's books and it's passion.
It's passion.
The title of my book is A Gentle Madness.
Uh-huh.
I mean, it's the passion people have.
Is this for a collecting book?
You're not going to learn anything about collecting.
I'm going to shut off the tape recorder here.
Say it again.
Richard Maxey, N-A-C-K-S-E-Y.
He's part of our humanities department.
And he has a library that I've never seen.
I mean, first of all, it looks like the Peabody Library downtown, which is beautiful.
I don't know if you've ever been in that one.
I've been to all of them.
Well, he has thousands, thousands of books.
I mean, it's just endless.
And apparently he's read every single one of them.
And when you talk to him, you really feel that he has read every single book that's ever been written.
He's a bibliomaniac.
And he's a teacher?
A wonderful, wonderful man.
Does he collect in a... He collects.
I mean, does he collect these things as artifacts?
Obviously, he reads them, but is it... Yeah, he has some very, very old books, too.
I mean, 14th, 15th century.
He teaches at Hopkins?
Yeah, he's in the humanities program.
Okay.
I'm going to shut the tape.